# PubMedApp
Yiwen Bu
ybu34@gatech.edu
GT ID: ybu34

## Project Introduction 
1. The purpose of the recommendation system is to push the most possible interesting health-related articles to the readers, 
based on their browser and action history, inlcuding view, bookmark, like, comment, and follow. It will be given different weights.

2. Input data<br>
    i. articlewID.csv <br>
    columns:  'Unnamed: 0', 'index', 'oldIndex', 'journal', 'title', 'text', 'year',
       'lang', 'type', 'region', 'PMID', 'url', 'key', 'contentId']
       
    ii. users_interactions.csv <br>
    columns:   'timestamp', 'eventType', 'contentId', 'personId', 'sessionId',
       'userAgent', 'userRegion', 'userCountry'

3. Evaluation: <br>
 Top-N accuracy metrics
 **Recall@5** of **0.21**, which means that about **21%** of interacted items in test set were ranked the top-5 items (from lists with 100 random items)<br>
 **Recall@10** of **0.33**, which means that about **33%** of interacted items in test set were ranked the top-10 items (from lists with 100 random items)
 
4. Conclusion: <br>
The content based model has the best performance, it will be used to generate reader's recommendation list. 
It achieves 58% in Top-10 accuracy and 49% in Top-5 accuracy. 


## Deliverable 3 Recommendation Engine (Backend)
It compared different models for the recommendation system:
1. popularity model: it  provides good recommendations for most people.  
2. Content-Based Filtering model: uses only information about the description and attributes of the articles readers have actions before to model user's preferences
3. Collaborative Filtering model: This method makes automatic predictions (filtering) about the interests of a reader by collecting preferences or taste information from many readers (collaborating).
4. Hybrid model: combining collaborative filtering and content-based filtering


## File structures ##
1. /query.py <br>
         Data preparation. Generate the sample data from pubmed database. It queried more than 3000 publications, including title, abstract, journal, year, language, region, pubmed ID, url et al.<br>
         Don't need to run this file again, unless want to generate new dataset. <br>
         The output of this file is saved as data/articlewID.csv <br>
         For limiting the file size, transition or temp data have been deleted.
                  
2. /recommender.py   
        main file. All the learners and recommender models are included. <br>
        It will generate all the performance for each of the model and their comparison. <br>
        The performance plot is saved in output/ComparisonModels.png <br>
        This file can run through, it will take about 2-3 minutes to run and results will be printed in the console.
                      
3. /pubmedRec.py   
    Place holder for flask file. Not finish yet.

4. /requirements.txt      
    required packages
5. /README.md             
    Information
6. /data/articlewID.csv   
    Input data. more than 3000 aritcles meta data from pubmed, generated by myself.
7. /data/users_interactions.csv 
    Input data. Users action on each article. generated by Gabriel Moreira.
7. /output/comparisonModel    
    Model comparison figure.


## To do in next deliverable
1. Flask 
2. Frontend: GUI
3. Take readers' inupt and add into the users_interaction.csv.


### Reference
1. Building a Movie Recommendation Engine in Python using Scikit-Learn
https://medium.com/code-heroku/building-a-movie-recommendation-engine-in-python-using-scikit-learn-c7489d7cb145

2. Evaluating recommender systems
http://fastml.com/evaluating-recommender-systems/

3. Building a Recommendation System with Python Machine Learning & AI
   Lynda.com course by Lillian Pierson

4. Recommender system 
   wikipedia/Recommender_system

5. Articles sharing and reading from CI&T DeskDrop by Gabriel Moreira
  
6. Recommender Systems in Python: Beginner Tutorial
https://www.datacamp.com/community/tutorials/recommender-systems-python




        
